This is testing testing one two three four one two
three four testing testing this is April the 23rd
and I'm at 4000 Las Vegas in El Paso and I have the
honor of recording the memories of Mr. Anthony
Haddad class of 49 to begin with describe your
family background who came from where, when, and
then go ahead and just give a biographical summary
of you before you went to A&M. Okay. I was born in
December 20, 1928, in Juarez, Mexico. My parents
were of Syrian descent. They were in Juarez, in
Mexico, because at that time, immigration was
very limited for Middle Easterners. And they
spent five years there waiting for their quota
number so they could come across. And I was born
while they were waiting. And I had a sister that was
born at the same time. They came from the old
country with four of my brothers and sisters that
were born there. Then when we moved over here in
1930, I had two other sisters that were born on this
side. So we're real international. I went to
school. We grew up My dad was a peddler Started out
as a peddler when he came from the old country
didn't know how to speak English didn't know
anything but went out and knocked on doors and
peddled, got enough money to open a little grocery
store. Where? What part of town? On the south side.
Second Ward, you know, the worst part of town. He
was there for three or four years. Then he moved up
to Yandel, about where St. Clement Church is now,
about 700 block. Had a partner and he had that store
for a couple of years. And I remember when We had
moved to 1400 Yandel, and I was, what, five years
old, maybe. I used to cry to let him take me to the
store with him, you know. And he would, and about
halfway there, I'd tell him I was tired, and he'd
put me, he was a big man, he'd put me on his shoulders
and carry me the rest of the way. Then he was there
two or three years, and then in 1932,
We moved to, our home was 1400 Yandel. We tore the
porch off and daddy built a store in front of the
front of the front of our house. Now this was a
little grocery store. Yeah, a little grocery
store, 20 by 40. And that supported us for until
1954. We had that store until 1954. I went to Lamar
School. It was right there. What language did you
speak first? You know, I think I spoke Arabic
first, because my mother never learned to speak
English. She learned a little bit of Spanish, not
much, because she stayed home. You know, she
wasn't exposed to anybody. So I think I learned
Arabic first. Of course, I've forgotten most of
it. And then I went to school with mostly Mexican
people, and so I learned Spanish from them. And
then my sisters, I think I learned most of my
English from my sisters, my older sisters. They
were all very intelligent. They used to talk
school at home. Two of my sisters were
valedictorians in grammar school and high
school. One of my sisters was a salutatorian. So
they were all smarter than I was, but these three
were exceptionally smart, and I think that's
where I learned my English. I went to Lamar through
the eighth grade. Then I went to El Paso High. Now
the student body at El Paso High then, how diverse
was it?
It was not as diverse as it is now, you know. Not as
many Spanish-speaking.
A few, yeah. A lot of the Jewish people were there
because they lived right up on Rim Road and right
around there. We had a good Jewish student body.
And then us, we were, you know, I don't know, 30 or 40
of us, you know. Great school, wonderful
experience, great people. We had a good football
team then, too.
Finished there. The war started while I was in high
school.
Yeah, I was a freshman, I think, in 1941. So we just
went all through high school. And then a cousin and
I got to thinking about college our senior year. We
had a cousin, Art Abraham, that played football at
A&M and had gone there and talked it up quite a bit.
So we decided to go there. Now, what year is your
high school graduation? What year? 46. 46, okay. I
was a Frog at A&M. Okay. We graduated in January of
46 and went on right to A&M, you know. Oh. I was a
midterm. A Frog, they used to call them that. I
don't know what they call them now. It still is.
It's still a Frog. Now, you had not visited there at
all. Never had been there, never knew anything
about it, except that that's where we wanted to go.
Didn't know anything about the spirit, didn't
know anything. Now, were you the first of your
brothers and your sisters to go to college? No, no.
Two of my valedictorian sisters went, but neither
one of them finished. One of them got married, and
the other one just decided she didn't want to go to
college. All right, so when you went in January of
46, What did you, you went on the train? No, we, my
cousin's parents drove us. Oh. What did you take
with you? What kind of stuff? Oh, I took, you know,
mostly clothes, you know. I'd never been away from
home. This was quite an experience. Where had you
been? How far had you traveled anywhere?
Yeah, Juarez. I think we went to Rio Dosa one time.
You hadn't been to Albuquerque? No. Not to Austin?
Nowhere. Nowhere. This was the first time. You
know, I remember we were in the grocery business,
and we worked it ourselves. It was a family
business, and it was small, and so we just worked.
And when I got there, and once we got into things, it
was a surprise in my life. Did your mother or dad
give you any... Kind of last-minute advice,
or...? Daddy opened a checking account for me. And
he said, spend all you want. It was a local one. But
he would get the statement And and here in El Paso,
you know, he said spend all you want anything you
need But the first time I came home he said now what
was this for? What was that for? So I I watched
myself that you had worked in the store. Yes, but
you didn't get paid Working as part of your family.
Yeah, yeah, yeah except into you know my sophomore
junior year my brother also had a store two or three
miles on montana street away from us and he got
drafted and when he got drafted my sister one of my
sisters went and ran the store for me and so i used to
go after school i used to go out there and work with
her so i worked with her for a couple of years you had
made good grades in high school uh yeah not as good
as i should have My counselor came up to me one time
and she says, you know, your IQ is 126. You've got
the second highest IQ in the class. Why aren't you
making those kind of grades? Of course, I wasn't
studying, you know. When you went to A&M, what did
you think you were going to major in? Engineering.
why i just was fascinated by math but i had no
background i didn't take any physics i didn't take
any chemistry in high school so when i arrived and
went to my first chemistry class there was like 300
students in there and i didn't know what they were
talking about you know so after about a week i
changed my major i changed it to business okay all
right describe uh you you go with family And they
take you to the campus. Do you remember where they
let you out? I don't remember. Did you have a foot
locker already? Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I had a foot
locker. And you had some clothes. What else did you
have in that foot locker? I think maybe some
shaving stuff and stuff like that, but I think
that's all. How did you know what unit, what outfit
you were going to be in? How did you know what
dormitory? I guess we must have gotten something
in the mail. uh it's been so long ago i really i
really don't remember that part you know so
describe getting into the dorm and into your
outfit and into your room yeah well we we got there
and we were roommates my cousin and i for the first
couple of years
everything was real nice you know everybody was
real cooperative, real nice, and told us what we
needed to do and all that. Of course, we were
mid-term. What outfit were you in? A battery,
field artillery.
Was it in the Duncan area? Yeah. New Dorm? Yeah. I
don't remember which one, but it was one of those.
We were at the band. I think the band was above us.
Describe how you all organized your room. What was
in it? There was a bunk bed, you know, a sink, and a
desk, maybe two. But my cousin made it real clear
that I was in charge of fixing the beds, cleaning
the room, and I did. And I think it was good for me,
you know, because at home I never did anything, you
know, six sisters. All right, how was a second
semester frog treated by the sophomores and the
other freshmen? Mostly, you know, just like they
treated the fish, except they never let you forget
that you were a frog, you know. And
how did you learn about all the the spirit the
traditions how did they? well, it just the people,
you know, the people would talk about it and
Yet I'd see him and hear him and you know, finally I
you can't help getting into it, you know Where did
you have to stand in line to go get your uniforms? I?
know i don't everything was so hazy the first week
or two i just did i just kind of you know imagine i
know we had to get sheets and towels they they
furnished all of that now there must have been lots
of world war ii veterans this is when they first
were starting to come come back and it was then i
think six or seven thousand were were in the corps
and the veterans were just just began to come back.
We called them non-regs.
How long before they lined you all up in the hallway
and this that and the other? Oh I think just about a
week. I didn't get a spanking for Gosh, I'll bet you
it's three or four weeks before they've got a
spanking. And what kind of paddle did they use?
They used a pretty good size one. Just, you know,
made out of, I guess, a half inch or something like
that. Homemade, you know. Some of them had holes in
them and some of them didn't. But it never, never
hurt. as much as you thought it was going to, you
know? And it was nice. It was nice. I'm really
thankful for what I learned there. Little old
innocent boy, you know, didn't know anything, had
never been away from home, and it was really, and
still is, I think, the best experience of my life.
How long before you got a nickname? Oh, gosh,
pretty quick. What was it? Frog head in, head in.
Head in, head in. Yeah. Any background as to where
they got the head in?
Okay, okay. And do you remember any things in the
dining hall? Oh, yeah, sure. Share some of those.
Oh, gosh, yeah. The food was good. It really was
for, you know, the college.
We sat at the same seat every meal. The seniors
served themselves first, and then the juniors,
and we served them too. You know, we'd pass them
stuff and everything. And then we'd eat. But there
was always at least one of everything for
everybody. It's not like they hogged it or
anything. It was fair. But we served ourselves
last.
Then after we finished eating, if there was
anything left, we could have anything we wanted.
And mostly bread and gravy. Lube, they called it.
And that was fun. And the food, I thought, for
college and cafeteria, I mean, it was always
seated, too. We always sat. We marched in. And then
I think we just walked out, you know. But we always
marched, everybody in front of their building,
and marched in, and most of the time the band would
play. Describe a typical day. What time did you get
up? What did you do when between getting up and
going to bed at night? Gosh, yeah, let's see. we
used to get up pretty early or i would i'd get up
pretty early usually at six o'clock or so and i
still do you know we'd wash up clean up i'd fix the
beds clean straighten out the room we'd fall in for
breakfast after breakfast we'd come back get our
books go to class come back you know i don't know i
think I think we fell in for lunch, too. I'm not
sure. I know we did for the evening meal. We might
have just gone to the mess hall for lunch. I don't
remember. But we always sat together, you know,
the same group every time. We'd have lunch, go back
to class, come back home. Intramural sports,
sometimes we'd go out and play, you know,
football, volleyball.
I know as a freshman, we had PE. We had to take PE. We
had that 1.2 mile run we had to do every day, and we
had to do it within a certain time. By and large,
where did that run? What was the route? I think it
was around the track. Okay. Yeah. At Kyle Field? At
Kyle Field or around there, maybe some practice
field around there or something. Then we'd come
home, study, and then, of course, you know, shoot
the breeze all the time, you know, get together.
Maybe the freshmen would get together and shoot
the breeze, talk about what had happened, what was
going on, rumors, you know. Now, you weren't
allowed to have a radio, were you, as a freshman? I
didn't have one. No, I didn't know whether we were
allowed to or not. I didn't have one. And no
typewriter? yeah oh you had a typewriter yes i did
you took it with you oh yeah that's right i took one
with me my dad bought me a little underwood
portable that's right i did have a typewriter uh
the uh uh the courses were there some of those first
semester courses that you now realize were
important in shaping anything well when i
switched over to business the spanish the english
the math i felt like i'd had it before you know it was
all pretty pretty easy for me in the history but
after that you know statistics and all that then it
really got interesting the first that first
spring semester did you come home for easter or did
you stay there the whole spring i think i came home
yeah how did you i used to hitchhike a lot after they
told me how to do it and all that but i don't think i
did it my first my first semester, I think after my
sophomore year. Then I started, I used to
hitchhike home. We'll talk about that in a minute,
because I want to get good hitchhiking stories.
Yeah, that was really something. And you
communicated, particularly that first
semester, did you write letters back and forth?
Mostly letters. you know i didn't call much i don't
know whether we even had a phone in the house i don't
think we had a phone in the house we had a phone in the
store because we delivered and did all that but i
didn't i don't think we had a phone at home what do
you think you told them about life at a m that first
semester well i didn't tell them the truth i tell
you i was um i was in a state of shock almost you know
but uh and i came home one time and I was taking a
shower, and my mama saw my rear end, and it was red.
And she said, what happened? I said, oh, I fell,
mama. But I didn't get, we didn't get. Did your dad,
did your dad? My dad never saw it. He didn't ask? No.
It's just how is it, you know, and he checked on the
money, and you know. But we didn't, it didn't
happen very often. It really didn't. So when that
first semester, you passed everything yeah but
you didn't do as well as you wanted to in chemistry
well i didn't i dropped that my first week remember
i switched over to business oh okay yeah and that's
why i say it was so easy you know regular and so that
first semester went well academically oh yeah
yeah right you came home for the summer yeah what'd
you do that summer do you remember um i i worked in
the store okay or did i work you know i i
My dad didn't need me. I think I drove a car for an
elderly lady that was a welcome wagon. And I drove
her around during the summer. All right, then you
go back for the fall. Same roommate. Yeah. Same
outfit. Yeah. Well, it was a battery. Mm-hmm. Yeah
since Since it was only your second semester Were
you treated like a sophomore or a freshman? We were
supercharged they called it. Oh, okay We were
supercharged freshmen. We had to stay with our
class. Mm-hmm, you know, so describe the routine
for a sophomore then I Well, you know what they
called us. Should I say it? It doesn't matter.
Pissheads.
Well, we just kind of copied what the guys before us
did. We kept order. We made a lot of noise. Did you
ever paddle any fish? A couple, I think, yeah. for
what do you remember anything no i don't i don't
remember all right then describe the routine for
football games by then oh boy yeah yeah gosh
i don't think we marched in but we went we had to
stand up during the whole game never sit down And I
don't know whether we had to stoop all the time or
not. You know how we used to do like this? I don't
know whether we did that just when we yelled or we
did it all the time. You went to Yale practice? Oh,
yeah. Never missed. You know, that got to be a
habit. Yeah, we had to go. We went. And those were
good. And did you make any of the core trips that
fall? Yeah. Yeah, I made them all. Where? How did
you go to those Houston and Austin and Dallas and
Fort Worth?
You know, I think, was it our sophomore year or our
junior year, my cousin got a car. And we used to
drive. And when I wasn't with him, I'd hitchhike.
Now, coming home, I'd hitchhike. Because most of
the time, like midterm, Most of my exams, I didn't
have to take my finals. You know how they used to do.
Because you were making good grades. Yeah, yeah.
And I forgot what they called it. Anyway, so... A
distinguished student. Well, yeah. You were a DS.
For two semesters, I was a distinguished student.
But all the other semesters, I didn't have to take
very many finals, you know. And he did, so I'd
hitchhike home. And that was an experience. How
long did it take to hitchhike from College Station
to El Paso? You know, not that long. What route
would you normally take? Usually I'd go...
Did you go to Austin or San Antonio? Austin. Yeah, I
think I'd go through Austin. And, you know, I never
stayed at a place too long. Really had good luck.
Did you have any memorable experiences? Well,
just, you know, one time I got in the car with a guy,
and he had a bottle of whiskey and a gun. But he was
really, really nice. He offered me a drink. And the
gun was between us, you know, like. And he drove me,
I think, from, I don't know, Austin, all the way to
El Paso. Did you ever have any bad experience
hitchhiking? You know, I never did. I never did. I
have not, in all these interviews, had a bad one
yet. No, there's nothing that I remember that even
close to bad. A few people have said, well, he may
have been driving a little too fast. Or maybe he had
a little too much to drink. Two or three of them have
said, I was asked to drive. We did once for a lady. My
cousin and I had both hitchhiked together that
time, and she was wasted. All right. When you were
leaving El Paso to go back, where was the best place
to catch a ride? You know, I don't know whether I
hitchhiked back or not. don't remember going that
way i think i used to just hitchhike home and then
i'd either take a train or a bus all right if you took
the train where did you go to at union depot and uh to
dallas okay and then go and then down okay yeah if
you took the bus what route
you know i don't think i ever took the bus because i
don't remember but my my folks wouldn't let me
hitchhike back in those First year or two, did you
have any dates over there? No. No. You know, I
hadn't had much to do with girls, really. And you
and your buddies, what was it like to work on
Bonfire that first fall? Oh, that was really good.
We just worked. now that that's one of the first
years y'all cut down some trees there were logs
yeah they were it was a big big bonfire all right i
remember as far as i know that's the first year they
really used logs isn't that something where where
were you working were you part of the cutting crew
or the whole no i was by the bonfire you were helping
the stack yeah yeah and it was on the drill field
I don't remember. I think that's where it was.
Probably. And about how long in weeks did y'all
work on it? Gosh, I don't remember that either. A
long time, I know. I don't know. Did you work much at
night? I didn't. I think I worked mostly
afternoons. I don't remember it being dark while
we were working. Did anybody get hurt? No. Nobody
that I was aware of, you know. Was there any
drinking too much or anything like that? I never
saw any. But like I tell you, you know, I was an
innocent kid. And what did you, how did you feel
when that bonfire was lit? Oh, gosh. It was
unbelievable. I didn't, I didn't think anybody
could do that, you know. When did the A&M spirit
begin, did you begin to feel the spirit? Oh, gosh.
You know, I think really I didn't really get into it
until I got home that summer. That first spring?
Yeah. Yeah, I didn't, because most of the time I
was, you know, nervous and wondering whether I was
going to go back. You know, but after I got home, I
missed it. did you make some friendships early
that were lasting oh yeah yeah i did not not many but
i have my my senior year uh was a good friend uh jim
stevens he's our class uh agent our class agent now
and uh he's a good friend he was uh I think he was in
the band above us. Anytime he comes to El Paso, he
stops by. I've seen him last year a couple of times.
I haven't seen him this year yet. Now, back before
the war, they had a day in the spring called Fish
Day. when everything reversed. Was there a fish
day in your area? Well, I was a frog, see? So I never
got that fish experience. Okay. Yeah, and I know
they didn't have a frog day. Do they still walk in
the gutter, the freshmen, or...? If so, I'm not
aware of it. We used to have to walk in the gutter. I
don't believe they do anymore.
Who did you go to for academic advice of what to take
and not to take?
Nobody. Who were some of the, as you changed to
business, who were some of the teachers that were
important to you in business? Well, Dr. Nance in
business was, he was a history teacher. You had Dr.
Nance? Yeah. I graded papers for him. Really?
Yeah. He's the department head that hired me. Make
believe I didn't know Dr. Nance. Describe Dr.
Nance. Well, to me, he was all business. He was a
good teacher. I enjoyed history with him. I guess
he saw that I did because he asked me after one
semester with him if I'd like to grade papers for
him, you know. And I told him yes. I don't know what
it paid, not much, but it was something to do
because, you know, I didn't I didn't get out. I
didn't carouse. I had a little time on my hands. I
liked him a lot. He was not flamboyant or anything
like that. He was just a good teacher. He didn't
smile very often, but... Where was his office
then? Do you remember? Where was history?
It was in one of the older buildings, you know, but I
don't... See, when I got there, it was a Nagel Hall.
I think that's... Really? I think that's the one.
Oh, okay. The old civil engineering building.
Uh-huh. Okay. Yeah. Let me turn... Yeah. There are
some other, some people you remember in business
that were... Well, there was the business cycles
teacher, and I forgot his name. He was a small man,
Drove an old, old car. People used to make fun of
him. Gosh, I wish, and Dr. Stevenson in
statistics, he taught it beautifully. Gosh, it
was so interesting. I didn't want to leave his
class, you know. That was real good. Mr. Hoyle,
business law, he was good. Who else did I have? Did
you go to class regularly? I never missed, except
my senior year, I had an insurance class that was at
8 o'clock in the morning, and I was in the non-regs
then. I didn't get a contract with the military,
and I don't know why I'd oversleep and I'd miss his
class. I got a D, the first D I ever got. And I
deserved it. But until then, you went regularly?
Oh, yes. And even then, I did, except for that one
class. How did you and your buddies behave in
class? Pretty good. Pretty good. I don't remember
anybody cutting up or anything. No, I think, yeah,
real good. Might have been that military, you
know, because I don't remember anybody being
disciplined.